
  Summary about week 1 day 1
    Amazon Web Services



            Cloud Infrastructure

The cloud infrastructure amazon web services has and likely other cloud Services
Work by using regional zones for quick availability.
A regional zone will typically be defined like "us-east"

Within that regional zone there are availability zones.
A availability zone will be typically defined like "A"

Together to specify an availability zone within a regional zone you would say "us-east-A"
You can have multiple availability zones within a region so it can be us-east-A, us-east-B and us-east-C

 If you need low latency you can have a local zone that is designed to be an on site or near site
 way to increase speeds.

 Here is a little diagram to show how it looks

    Cloud System (AWS)
       |
   Regional Zone (us-east)
      |
   Availability Zone (A)

There are also edge locations for very fast speeds to increase access to the cloud.
It works by finding the closest physical location to the client who is fetching the data.




           AWS Features And Services


EC2 is a way to quickly create already configured virtual machines
Also known as instances and they can be paused and ran on demand
this is paid by the hour but you can also reserve resources

Reserved instances are instances that are reserved ahead of time and used when you know how much RAM and storage you will need.
It can be cheaper because of the planned longer term choice of using it.

Spot instances are instances that can be purchased through bidding and can be very cheap
because of high discounts. It is not a good idea to use this for anything serious
but it can be good for testing and smaller things.


Understanding Soft and Hard Limits

Soft limit - limitations dictated by the service provider
             You could submit a ticket and request more

Hard limit - Limitations dictated by the physical limitations of the provider
             They have finite resources so asking for more than that limit is not possible.


AWS Organizations
 Used to manage multiple accounts
 This has "SCP" built in from what I learned or known as "Service Control policy's"

AWS Control Tower
 Used for Management of multiple accounts and servers
 Has an SDK for automated management
 + Terraform is a tool that also does similar things to this from what I understand

AWS Service Catalog
 Management of resources and useful for installing patches across systems

Cloud Trail
 Used to monitor the API this can be important for viewing bugs or malicious actors
